when you turn on the tap you get all the
water you want to need obviously for a
price how much you pay is determined by
how much you use how much you use is
tracked by your water meter as you use
water passes through the meter and moves
the numbers on the odometer like dial
the otai water district checks your
meter on a monthly basis no doubt at one
time or another you've seen a NotI water
district meter reader in action this is
one of two ways the otai water district
uses to read your meter there is the
manual way which we've been doing for
years and years and years and people are
the most familiar with open a meter
cover open the meter lid read and enter
the number on the handheld computer
close the lid and cover the meter this
process is repeated up and down the
street Street after Street neighborhood
after neighborhood labor-intensive and
time-consuming for the guitar Water
District this old-school method is on
its way out enter the digital age the
new system automatic meter reading
inside this car is the new age meter
reader and a computer capable of
receiving a specialized wireless signal
a simple drive down the street and meter
after meter is read what used to take
hours can now be done in minutes we have
the ability to gather 3,000 reads in the
matter of you know a couple of minutes
versus taking three or four people all
day long here is how it works the meter
which looks the same to the nekkid eye
is a bit different the AMR meters have a
little transmitter installed inside of
them so the reads can transmit directly
as the meter reader drives through a
neighborhood a specially programmed
computer connected to an antenna
receives the read being broadcast on a
special radio frequency this new
technology saves hundreds of man hours a
month
if we had to read all 49,000 metres
manually we would need about 11
full-time meter readers to do that
currently and as I said we have 58
percent of our meters that are current
that have the AMR technology installed
we only have three full-time meter
readers at this point that are reading
every day instead of a team of 11
there are now three operational costs
are lower and that helps to keep your
costs down the system is modern and
effective but not barbaric as the need
for a meter readers diminishes otai
employees are placed in other positions
that open up through attrition
eventually in the otai water district
the manual meter reader will go by way
of the shoe cobbler so ty has a movement
right now to switch all of our meters to
this AMR we call it an automatic meter
reading technology by 2014 when we talk
about electronics and things like
transponders we must also consider
glitches if a meter fails to transmit
the reader will check it manually the
failure is reported and the transponder
is replaced the system is always under
scrutiny we have a couple of different
checks and balances in place the first
thing is is that once a year we actually
take a manual read at the same time that
the electronic read is being taken and
then we compare those and we make sure
that the reads are in line saving time
and money are only two of the many
advantages of this automated system it
actually gives us the ability to and
pull hourly usage from someone's meter
so if you call us and you say I have no
clue how I could have used three times
as much usage this month then I have in
the past and you checked everything
you've checked your irrigation you've
checked to make sure you don't have any
leaks we can actually send someone out
and they'll put a device on the meter
that will pull past history it usually
will go back about sixty days or so and
give us hour by hour usage history so we
can pinpoint when perhaps you had
something go wrong
in this day and age we are all being
asked to do more with less it is this
kind of innovation that helps the otai
water district control costs as much as
possible so remember just because no one
is open the lid on your water meter
doesn't mean your bill isn't current or
precise you're always free to check your
meter anytime you'd like don't know how
look for our video on how to read your
meter for use for the entire Water
District I'm Leonard via real